# t-channel_dark_QCD
UFO files for a QCD like dark sector with and t-channel mediator

This repository contains model files for the generation of semi-visible and/or emerging jets via a t-channel mediator. UFO files given for Yukawa-like couplings to up-type and down type-quarks. Feynrule files and an example notebook to create the UFO files are provided. For details on the models see e.g. [1502.05409](https://inspirehep.net/literature/1345350), [2011.13990](https://inspirehep.net/literature/1834020),  2409.XXXX. For the model files degenerate dark quark masses are assumed and the basis is chosen so that only the first three generations of dark quarks couple to SM quarks via the mediator. Thus, only three dark quarks are implemented, though additional dark quarks can be added analogously in the feynrule models. Fourth and higher generation dark quarks are produced during shower and can be implemented using the HiddenValley module of pythia. Example pythia files are given. 

## couplings to down-type quarks
A t-channel mediator facilitating Yukawa-like couplings between SM down-type quarks and three generations of dark quarks are implemented. Bi-fundamental mediator is labeled `x` the dark quarks `ddark1, ddark2, ddark2` with their antiparticles being `x~, ddark1~, ddark2~, ddark3~`.

The `param_card.dat` generated by madgraph will have a fixed width set for the mediator, which may not be desired. The `param_card.dat` can be manually modified to 

`DECAY 490001 Auto`

Similarily, the masses of the mediator and dark quarks can be set in the `param_card.dat`

`4900001 1.000000e+02 # massx`

`4900101 1.000000e+01 # mdarkq1`

`4900102 1.000000e+01 # mdarkq2`

`4900103 1.000000e+01 # mdarkq3`

## couplings to up-type quarks
The same labels as for the couplings to down-type quarks are used for couplings to up-type quarks. Again, the mediator width  and the masses can be manually set in the `param_card.dat` using 

`DECAY 490002 Auto`

`4900002 1.000000e+02 # massx`

`4900101 1.000000e+01 # mdarkq1`

`4900102 1.000000e+01 # mdarkq2`

`4900103 1.000000e+01 # mdarkq3`

Note, the different PDG ID of the mediator, while the PDG IDs of the dark quarks is the same as for the case of couplings to down-type quarks.  

## Example madgraph event generation

-mediator pair production for couplings to down-type quarks

`import model darkQCD_fv_down`

`generate p p > x x~`

`output mediator_pair_down`

-dark quark production via t-channel mediator exchange for couplings to up-type quarks

`import model darkQCD_fv_up`

`define qd = ddark1 ddark1~ ddark2 ddark2~ ddark3 ddark3~`

`generate p p > qd qd`

`add process p p > qd qd j`

`add process p p > qd qd j j`

`output t_channel_dark_quarks_up`


## Notes on using pythia for showering and hadronization
The pythia HiddenValley module can be used for showering and hadronization of the dark sector. The PDG IDs in the UFO files are set so that they correspond to the ones of the HiddenValley module. 
